In this lecture,
we're going to look at a special kind of methods in objects called
getters and setters. So let's imagine we have the
person object with two properties.
First name, set this to Mosh, and last name,
set this to Hamedani. Now
somewhere in our application we want to display a person's full name.
So, we have to do something like this. Console.log
we can either get the person.firstName, concatenate it with
space and the last name, or a better way, as I told you before,
is to use a template literal. So we use the back tick
and then we add a couple arguments here, so,
here's the first one, the argument is person.firstname, now we have
a space, and here's the second argument, person.lastname,
however, the problem with this approach
is maybe there are multiple places in our application where we want to display
someone's full name. With the current implementation, we'll have to repeat this template
literal in multiple places. A better approach is to
define a method in this object, call it full name, and
move this expression right there. And then whenever we want to
display a person's full name we simply call that person's method. So,
we can add another key value pair, full name, but we set the value
to a function, or as I told you before, in
ES6 we have a shorter syntax, to add a method to an object
so instead of adding it as a key value pair, we can add it
as a function without the function keyword. So, if
you want to define a function outside of an object, what do we do?
We add function, the name of the function, parenthesis, and curly braces.
However, when we need to add this inside of an object, we just
drop the function keyword. So you can see, this new syntax
is shorter and cleaner than the older syntax, okay?
So here's our full name method, we simply return
this expression here. So I'm going to cut this, and move
it here. Now with this new implementation, every time we
need to display someone's full name, we simply call person.fullname.
Save the changes, we get Mosh Hamedani.
Beautiful. However, there are a couple problems. With this approach.
The first problem, is that this is read only.
In other words, we cannot set a person's full name
from the outside. It will be nice if we could
do this, and then the first name and last name
properties would be automatically set based on what we passed here.
The other issue is that I don't like to call this like a method.
It would be nicer, if we could treat this as a property.
So, we could drop the parenthesis. Like this. So
how do we do this? Well, that's where getters and setters
come in the picture. We're use getters to access
properties in an object and setters to
change or mutate them. So in this object
we should add a getter, and with that getter we can read this person's
full name, like a property, and with a setter we can set it
from the outside. So here is how it works. We prefix this
method with the get keyword, and now this method is
a getter. So we can access the full name like a property
on line 15. Let me temporarily comment out this line,
save the changes, you can see our program is still working, beautiful,
so this is our getter, now to be able to
set this from the outside we need to add a setter. A setter
is very similar. So we add the set keyword,
the name of the property or method, and then
code block. However, this method needs a parameter, you can
call it value or anything. And the value of this parameter will be
what we have in the right side of the assignment operator.
So here let's assume that value is a valid string, we need to
split that string by a space, take the parts and
set the first name and last name properties. So,
value call the split method of string,
you want to split it by a space, this will return
array, we can call that parts.
Now we can set the first name to parts of
0, and last name to parts
of 1. But finally, instead of logging the
person's full name, let's just log the person object. So,
initially, we set the first and last name to Mosh Hamedani, now
with this new property which is actually a setter, for changing the name
to John Smith. Save the changes, here's our
person object, you can see first name and last name properties are updated,
also note that full name, it's value is
... Sometimes when you're logging objects in the console,
you may see properties with this kind of value. As you can see from the
tool tip, this is a getter. In order to read the value you need to
click here, and now this method is executed and the
result is returned in the console. So this is the
benefit of getters and setters. In the next lecture we're going to look at
error handling.